But I was hoping we would get this kind of information.
So you did well that first semester overall?
Overall, first semester, I think, well we were on a three-point system.
I think I posted a one-seven-fifth, okay, which was good for me.
And I started to get involved in different activities here on the campus.
I was trying out for the freshman drill team and made the freshman drill team.
on the fish drill team, and then I joined some of the organizations that were in place here.
At that time, they had hometown clubs, belonged to the San Antonio NM Hometown Club, was active during the four years that I was here in the San Antonio NM Hometown Club.
So I met a lot of A&M San Antonio Aggie buddies, and that was one way that we could get rides back and forth because we didn't have cars.
Very few people had cars.
Describe the routine, because I don't have anybody yet that has, that I've been aware has been on the fish drill team.
How were you all selected?
What was the practice routine?
Where did you all perform?
Describe the drill team.
When, I guess, during the first week that we were here, they made announcements in the mess hall and told us that the fish drill team were, tryouts for the fish drill team were going to take place certain days.
So I said, well, I'm going to try.
So there's about, like, maybe four or five central guys that went out.
And so I figured, well, this
a big deal, you know?
I figured that, I mean, there's not going to be that many people who want to be on this.
Go out there or not.
I mean, there's like about 200 trying out for the fish drill team.
So, they start drilling you, and they kind of put you in groups, okay?
If you were
If you knew how to march or you had that type of training, previous training, then they put you in a certain group.
And then they started pulling people out.
So the first day I was there, they went ahead and selected me to be on, just that I was going to be on the fish drill team, okay.
And so one of my best buddies that was also from Central, Richard Alvarado, was also picked.
And I think we were picked because I remember the sponsor, we didn't call them hounds back then, we called them, they were advisors, okay, which was, he was the fish drill dean commander from the previous year.
And he came up and he asked me, you know, asked me what my name was.
And so, of course, I whipped out Fish Garcia yet.
And so he said, where are you from?
I said, San Antonio, sir.
And he asked me, he says, have you
were you on a drill team in San Antonio?
And I said, yes, sir.
He says, we're at Central Catholic.
And he said, come with me.
See, because Central Catholic, the drill team at Central Catholic was very well known, and they had been state champions and all that kind of stuff.
So I mean, most of us that had been in that group pretty well knew how to drill with a rifle and we knew how to
how to march, you know.
So actually we were good at drill.
And so they pulled us out and they started lining us up.
And then until they got to a group of about like 45 or so in that area.
We had actually 40 were the actual marching unit.
And then we had a few guys that were like reserves, not many.
It wasn't a big group.
And so during that week, it was intense.
They drilled, they drilled, they drilled, they drilled, trying to decide who was going to stay and who they were going to keep.
And then the ones that didn't make it, well, they didn't make it.
But so then after they, we didn't even drill with a rifle.
We just drilled.
Manual arms or something that if you didn't, they didn't even look at it, they figured they'd teach you how to do that, even if you didn't know, if you had no previous drill with a rifle.
That whole week, finally, we get into a position where we have to select our fish drill team commander.
And so, oh, God, I don't know how many guys wanted to be the fish drill team commander.
Of course, you know, it was a prestige position because you had to get the opportunity to wear a saber, and the only freshman on the campus that would wear a saber with a fish drill team.
I would say there was probably about eight to ten of us that tried out for or wanted to be.
So what we did, we drilled the troops, drilled the drill team around and come back.
And so it was by vote of the members.
And so we had this young man
that had been in the Marine Corps.
And he was already 21, 22 years old at the time.
He was a fish.
He was already married.
He had a son.
And he decided to come to A&M.
It went down to where it was between Ben, not both of them, Ben Rice.
Rice was his last name.
I remember that.
I can't remember his first name.
And myself, the two.
And he was selected to be the drill team commander.
then they decided, well, we need to have a guide-on-bearer, you know.
So, do you know how to do that?
Well, let's try out for that.
I said, I'll try out for that, you know.
So, I wound up being a guide-on-bearer.
So, we would drill every day.
About how long and where?
After classes, five o'clock.
We would
the quad back here we would go to the quad our rifles were in an armory down at the quad and we would go pull our rifles and then we'd drill from five to about 6 30.
And then we would put the rifles up and we'd go to Duncan and we'd have dinner there.
We would eat with the athletes.
See, so we didn't have any upperclassmen supervision.
So that was what was great because at least we knew one meal during the day was going to be great because we didn't have to worry about the upperclassmen being there.
Of course, we had waiters at that time, so normally we'd always get an upperclassman waiter who would always make sure that we, you know, he'd give us a little static and make sure that we wouldn't get out of hand and we'd sit at attention and eat and that kind of whatever.
Back in your outfit, did it give you prestige to be in the fish drill team?
Yes.
Anything that you, extracurricular activity that you belong to, gave your outfit points for the General Moore Trophy.
So being that I was a guide on bear and was on the fish drill team was a plus.
Now I might mention to you that
That didn't mean anything to the upperclassmen, you know, mainly the sophomores.
And in fact, that could kind of work against you because they'd figure, well, you think you're better than anybody else.
So you had to kind of prove yourself that, hey, over there's one thing, over here's another, right?
So you kind of like...
You had to prove yourself in two areas.
One is a member of the fish drill team and one is a member of your outfit, my squadron.
And so the first sergeant was always very, he was a fair person.
He wasn't like,
You would think that it was, I guess a lot of people think that the Corps was bad.
It wasn't bad.
Discipline was there but it was like being in the Army or whatever, you know what I mean?
But there was no situation where they were going to physically abuse you in that sense.
There were some that maybe they wanted to.
And I guess if they had the opportunity, they would do it.
But then I think the majority of them felt that we were there for an education and they were going to do whatever they had to do to discipline you and make your life as hard as possible as a freshman, but only in the sense of
of discipline, not necessarily the physical hazing or those kinds of things.
We used to do push-ups and those kinds of things.
That was natural, you know.
I'll tell you a story here pretty soon of one of the things that did happen.
Our outfit was kind of a renegade outfit.
Our juniors were kind of like partiers, you know.
They believed in wine and women and song, you know.
They always wanted to party.
And so I guess the sophomores had to put up with it.
And so as freshmen we had to follow, you know.
But we had, they were like
if we did something that upset another outfit, or if we did something that maybe the Trigon would get upset about, then they always called that good bull.
We stole one of the bass drums from the Aggie band, and our logo was a pink elephant footprint.
So we would have a stencil, so we stole the drum, painted the
or sprayed the elephant, the stencil, and then we rolled the drum back in and it had pink elephant footprints on the bass drum.
Of course, they came after us pretty solid and so we would do things like go around the campus at night and put elephant footprints around the campus and mainly in areas where
the Army units were.
And also, you know, the Army was always after us in the Air Force, so we would always go out there and do it.
Put it on the sidewalks or by their dorms, you know.
I guess it's graffiti, legalized graffiti.
And when we, there was a captain who was a Korean War veteran.
And I'm trying to remember his name.
And he came over to our dorm one day and told us that enough was enough.
And if he even, he said, the last thing you guys did is you
you went up to the tower, water tower, and put a pink elephant footprint up there.
So, I'm going to tell you right now, if you even start to do it again, I will make sure that you all are campus for the rest of the semester.
This was a captain from the Trigon Army.
And so,
It was a challenge, I think.
We felt, well, he's not gonna tell us what to do, you know.
So he had his office there.
We were in dorm.
see, what was it?
Four, I think.
See, no one thing.
Five, dorm five.
And so he was in, his office was in dorm three, in the quad.
So that night we went, got the stencil, and where it had his, God, what is the captain's name?
Real sharp guy.
I mean, he was a paratrooper.
I mean, this guy was
And so we went out there and we stenciled his door with the pink elephant footprint.
So he comes over the next day and he campuses all the freshmen in the outfit and chews on the juniors and the seniors for letting us do it and you should know better and gives them a
gives them a going over, gets a hold of us, we're up against the wall, and he says, y'all are campus for the rest of the semester or until I let you out.
I expect every Saturday after drill in the evenings, I expect to see y'all waxing those floors.
So we'd have to wax all the hallways, all the way up and down.
We had two floors, so we'd have to wax all the halls.
And those floors looked beautiful.
And he would come in, he would check.
But the upperclassmen, you know,
They would feel, okay, we know he can't be checking all the time.
So we kind of figured out about what time he'd be there.
So we'd get out there and we'd be working on the floors and he'd come by, we'd hit the wall and he'd say, yeah, you're all doing a good job.
And then he'd leave and then they'd say, okay, go on.
So it wasn't as bad as it sounded.
That was one of the things that did happen to us and we were campus for, I think he only campuses for like a month and then he let us loose.
The drill team, you practiced five days a week.
And then where were some of your first performances?
First performance was here on the campus at one of the football games.
That was our first performance.
And pretty much like how they used to follow in the fact that they would come in and drill with
They used to let them do a performance.
One time, I don't know when they stopped that, but we used to do the first performance there.
And then when we had parades or ceremonies at the drill field, we would march with our outfit and they'd say, okay, the fish drill team will perform at a certain hour and we would come back and perform.
We went, we didn't go to the competitions like they did up until the time that they dissolved the fish drill team.
We would only have like, let's see, we went to Laredo for Washington birthday celebration, which was a fiasco, as I remember.
We had real bad weather and they turned us loose.
half of the guys went across the river and, I mean, they got real soused and, I mean, so we weren't going to compete and then the next morning we competed and so, I mean, half of them had horrible hangovers, to include myself.
I shouldn't say it, I wasn't one of them.
So, but we had a good time.
And so, it was Laredo, the splash days in Galveston,
the parade in San Antonio, the San Antonio Fiesta Week.
Fiesta, uh-huh.
And.
Now at core trips, you all didn't perform?
One.
Oh, did you?
On one, on the last one.
Oh.
We'd go as a unit.
On the last, on the last, matter of fact I still have the picture of it.
When I was a freshman we went to, we performed as a unit and marched as a unit as part of the core in Fort Worth.
That was, that's where it was.
It was in Dallas and Fort Worth.
And yeah, the last court trip, we have two court trips a year, which either would be Dallas, Fort Worth, it would be Dallas, Houston, or Fort Worth, or Austin.
So wherever the last one was, the fish drill team would go as a unit.
So I'm pretty sure it was a Dallas court trip.
So yeah, we marched as a unit.
We would do a lot of ceremonial stuff, like honor guards,
And so like we used to have the Trigon, they had more military activities, more military type dances and that kind of activity.
And so we would honor guard a lot of them.
They would bring the fish drill team, we would honor guard when all the bulls would come through and present arms and that kind of stuff.
Did any national or world-famous politician or campus visitor come during that year and y'all were the honor guard?
No, I can't recall during my freshman year, no, no.
I can't recall that that happened, no.
And there wasn't a gubernatorial inauguration that year?
No, no.
I don't think so.
What was the, as far as you can recall, what was the highlight event for the fish drill team that year?
What do you remember most proudly?
I think the, just being the unit that it was throughout the whole year, that that was something that I think every one of us felt good about or felt great because, I mean, we were kind of
an elite group of freshmen that were selected to be in this unit.
And I think the fish drill team was not
was not as much a ceremonial unit as a drill unit.
Like the Solar Ross volunteers are more ceremonial to me.
And I think we drilled a lot harder than like the Ross volunteers at that time.
I don't know how the changes have taken place.
And I guess the highlight of our, would have been the
the trip to Laredo, the Washington birthdays.
Because I think that was like the first trip that we made out, made away from the campus.
And of course the requirement was the same.
We had to be back by call to quarters at 8.30.
And so they let us out like on a Friday and we all had to find our own way to get to Laredo.
It wasn't like they bused us there.
We all had to find our own transportation and we had to find a place to stay.
Of course they made arrangements that we could stay at the barracks.
At that time they had Laredo Air Force Base so we could all, any of us that wanted to stay on the base, we could stay at the base, which the majority of us did.
And the majority of the Washington birthday celebrations took place on the military installation there because they didn't have a civic center there at that time.
It wasn't that big.
But anyway, that was a highlight.
We won first place in that competition.
And I think that's the first competition we were in.
So I would say that would have to be the highlight.
I think the last drill together was very important to us.
Where was that?
On the drill field here.
Was that part of the final review?
The final review, right.
And no, it wasn't final review, it was spring military day.
And that was the last time that we'd well-known McElvis.
But that in particular was I think a big highlight to us, was almost the completion.
And then, you're right, there was final review.
We did perform one time in final review because that's when they gave us our awards.
No, I'm going back, I'm going to make some mistakes here.
That spring military day, then that Sunday after we drilled
And they gave us our medals, our fish drill team medals, etc., etc., you know.
They didn't have them like they do today, like they wear all their medals here.
They'd give us a little medal like this, you know, and you'd keep it in a case.
And the only thing you could wear was the ribbon.
That's the only thing you could wear.
And it was the barber pole.
They used to call it the barber pole.
I don't know if you're familiar with that or not.
It was a maroon and white stripe, candy, like a candy stripe.
We used to call it the barber pole.
So you had a barber pole, you were supposed to be hot stuff, you know.
So when we were
In Laredo, I might mention this to you, Fish Alvarado, Richard Alvarado, Fish Alvarado and myself were together and we got detached from the fish drill team.
We had the unit left.
We didn't have a right back.
We didn't get a right back.
We didn't find a right back.
Our right left, the person that had the car, so we didn't know how we were going to get back.
So my uncle and my mother and my father were in Laredo to celebrate Washington's birthday celebration.
And so I had to get a hold of my dad.
I knew where they were staying.
and tell them, Dad, I got bad news.
We don't have a ride home.
So we waited for them, and then they went ahead and brought us back to San Antonio.
Of course, remember, we had one car.
So it was a fish I brought on myself, and we, my dad says, well, just take the car.
and then I'll pick it up, or we'll pick it up, or we'll figure it out, you know.
So between San Marcos and Bastrop, the car broke down.
And this was like, we were late already, we knew we were going to be in trouble.
This was like about 9.30 at night.
So the car breaks down, and so there we are.
God, what were going to do?
So no ways to communicate, so I said, well, let's start hitchhiking.
So fortunately, there was two gentlemen that came by, and that was luck.
They were going to go through A&M.
They were on their way to Huntsville.
And so they picked us up.
And they brought us all the way, they took us right up to the door.
And they stopped in Bastrop, so I called my dad and told my dad.
Dad in the car broke down, so it's between about 30 miles here, whatever it was, from Bastrop.
So he said, okay.
He said, don't worry about it.
I said, and he says, I told him, call my first sergeant and call Fish El Rado's first sergeant and tell him what happened.
So ease the pain when we get there.
So I figured, well, we probably did not arrive on the campus until about
12.30 or 1 o'clock in the morning because we were out there for a while thumbing, you know, and they picked us up.
And when I went into the dorm, I figured, oh, I'm going to try to sneak into my room and try not to make—I hope nobody—first sergeant was waiting for me.
And I figured, well, this is it.
I might as well just make my will and send it back.
And so he yells at me and I, yes, sir.
So I hit the wall and he says, you all right?
I said, yes, sir.
He said, we're starting to worry about you.
And I said, I'm fine sir.
And he says, get to bed.
He says, it's late already.
So never said a thing.
It's amazing.
You felt you'd had a good escape.
Yeah.
They were hard, but they had a heart, you know.
It was like anybody else.
And I know you asked me a question about if Hispanics had any, there was a difference of us.
There was with some.
I mean, you had to figure it out.
In other words, if an upperclassman you knew had some resentments or whatever his
part of the state they came from that maybe they didn't think that you were, should be there, okay.
You had to figure those guys out.
And then you just try to stay away from them.
Because the majority of them would stay with you, you know, the upperclassmen.
I'll give you one example.
I had, there was two juniors from Luling, Texas.
And one's name was Torkson.
a very smart individual.
And Wilson, he was also very smart.
Wilson was a little on the redneck side, I can tell you that.
And he would make my life miserable.
I mean, he would make my life miserable.
And during Bonfire,
after we had been out on the bonfire area, because I don't know if you're familiar how bonfire worked back then, or maybe you are, that we would go, we would have like a crunch time, would go out there like for three days straight
They'd get us up like at 5 o'clock in the morning, we'd go to the mess hall, eat breakfast, then some mode of transportation within ourselves, we'd get ourselves out to the cutting area, we'd be there all day, send lunches out, and you always stayed together as an outfit.
Upperclassmen's responsibility to take care of the underclassmen.
There was no hanky-panky, no drinking, no, I mean it was all business.
We'd come back in the evening, they'd have a good meal for us in Duncan or Cebiza, wherever you would eat, but you would figure, you would say, have a good meal at Duncan or Cebiza.
It wasn't that bad.
So that one, when I was a freshman, we were at Bonfire, it was like the
the second day.
This guy's just pounding and pounding me after we come back, you know.
They both sat at the same table.
And Dorkson finally told Wilson, look, why the hell are you picking on him so damn much?
Or why the hell do you have to haze him?
He said, you know, we've been out here at the damn bonfire
working our, at the cutting area, working our butts off.
And here you are just like, you just can't get enough, you know?
And he says, well, you don't know about this guy.
And he says, well, I'll tell you what I know about Fish Garcia.
I think he's one of the, one of the best fish that we have.
And he's one of the sharpest fish we have.
And I think you need to stay off his butt.
And he says, if you don't, he says,
I'm going to take care of you myself.
It was weird that that upperclassman just came up and just stood up, you know.
And they were big buddies, and both from the same town.
So he says, I think that you've gone far enough, and I hope that you take my advice.
This guy wound up being the CEO of one of the outfits next year, and Dawson did.
And Wilson wound up quitting the Corps and became a non-reg.
I don't know, like I said, I don't know what the situation was, but you just had to kind of like
If you felt that something rubbed them wrong, then you would try to work around it.
I think what I felt was one of the important things for me was that I'm going to show them that I'm as good or better than anybody else here, and I can do that, and I'm going to work hard to do that.
And I think that would work everything out.
And then they would kind of like, okay, this guy's okay.
It's a shame that it was that way, but the instances were not that great.
And I'm assuming that when the San Antonio Hometown Club met,
there were some Hispanic and some Anglo guys in the same room.
That y'all were all mixed up, weren't you?
Yes, yes.
There weren't very many Hispanics, but there were some.
I mean, the numbers were not big numbers, but we all got along.
I mean, and all the San Antonio hometown club from, you know, your freshman to your senior level, they were very close.
They would drop handles with you right away and some of those guys were real tough guys, you know.
I mean they were considered like hard-nosed, but they treated us right.
Did you have a nickname?
Well actually my name when I came up here was Gregory.
Gregory.
And they shortened it.
Everybody just cut it to Greg.
So that's how it stuck.
That's why I go by Greg now, because it was Gregory.
And you'll see it in Gregory A. Garcia.
My short name was Greg.
That's how they finally tagged that on me.
And yeah there was always the joking kind of stuff, like with the, my roommate was, one of my roommates, one of my friends, really wasn't my roommate, he was Italian and so we used to kid each other a little bit, you know, like as always.
he'd call me a hot tamale, I'd call him a wop, you know, those kind of things.
But I mean it was all in good nature.
It wasn't like we were, had anything against each other, just the way it was, you know.
Like any young man with a group of guys, you know, you do those kind of things.
But really, you know, I think that everybody was
Once you established yourself and they knew what you were doing, and you proved yourself, then everything was on, on a pretty much equal, equal plane.
When did you begin to feel that you had accomplished that?
Was it by the end of the first semester?
Yes.
You began to feel it?
Yes, definitely.
Definitely.
Spring, see, the end of the first semester, I figured I was pretty much there.
Right at the start of the second semester, we were getting ready to have some, I don't know what the deal was.
We had something that we had to do as a corps.
And so the fish drill team was going as their unit, so I fall out with my outfit.
Of course, I had to fall out with my outfit first.
I was in the hallway, and I was in the uniform that the...